maintainers-guide: refresh (#8398)
tldr-pages/tldr: contributing-guides/maintainers-guide.md

- PRs should be merged once they
  (1) **pass the automated tests** (GitHub Actions, CLA signing, etc.),

>   (2) have all the **review comments addressed and resolved**,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  (2) have all the **review comments addressed**,
```

These two words are almost synonyms, so its just repeating ourselves.

>   (3) get **approved reviews by at least two maintainers**, (the last maintainer can merge immediately after approving) and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  (3) get **approved reviews by at least two maintainers**, (the second maintainer can merge immediately after approving) and
```

  (4) have been open for at least **24 hours** unless the changes are trivial

- If a PR fails to get a review from a second maintainer after a week,
  the first maintainer should ping others for review. If it still lingers around
  for **over a week without a second maintainer’s approval**,

>   the first maintainer can go ahead and merge it while dismissing all reviewers who
>   didn't reviewed the PR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the first maintainer can go ahead and merge it.
```

I don't see the purpose of dismissing, we don't need anyone's opinion (who was requested) before merging, so it just adds more work for the person who merges it and prohibits maintainers, who aren't as active, from reviewing PRs which may have been important however were merged because they had enough reviews.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps what is actually mean here is to dismiss *requests for review*?

- If the only issues holding up a merge are **trivial fixes**

>   (typos, syntax errors), and the author doesn't respond in a day or two,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  (typos, syntax errors, etc), and the author doesn't respond in a day or two,
```

We should keep this since its not just typos and errors which are trivial, for example, adding a --help command to a page is trivial.

Author: All possible trivial changes should be explicitly specified not to confuse maintainers when to use this rule.

Reviewer: Yes, the word trivial can be interpreted differently of course, however, we could include other things into trivial, one suggestion being grammatical errors

Reviewer 2: While being specific is good, but issues holding up a pull request or issue can be many different things that we can't list here exhaustively. For example, not all pull requests are for pages - some PRs are to the client spec, for example, which is often cross-checked by client developers.

Author: I've clearly described what changes can be considered as trivial above. ;)

  by [probot-stale](../.github/workflows/stale.yml),
  any maintainer can choose to take over the PR
  and make the necessary changes to get the content ready for merging.

- During the review process, make sure that contributors, especially new ones,
  are not **overwhelmed with too many change requests** (you being a maintainer can
  write less but more detailed comments in reviews to describe what the problem actually is
  and how it should be fixed).
  Be mindful of signs of fatigue (less enthusiastic responses, slower reactions),
  and relax review standards if necessary — minor issues can always be fixed later.
  It doesn't mean that maintainers reviewing PRs from new contributors should violate
  style guide for simplifying feedback. It means that feedback should be better written
  with more details.

- When merging PRs, use the **merge strategy that produces a clean Git history**:
  If there's a single commit in the PR,
  or if the multiple commits are not semantically independent changes,
  use the `Squash and merge` method.
  Don't forget to clean up the body of the squashed commit message, especially the `Co-authored by:` part.

>   (You can always use the body if you want to include useful information.)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  (You can always use the body if you want to include useful information.)
  
 Note: For some PRs with reviews and proofreading from contributors or native speakers outside of the tldr -pages organization the `Co-authored by` part must be included in the merge commit message.
```

Author: Do u want to tell that for external contributors such `Co-authored` lines should be left in other words?

Reviewer 3: > Do u want to tell that for external contributors such `Co-authored` lines should be left in other words?

Yes, Not for us `Collaborators/members` but for other contributors.

- PRs should be merged once they
  (1) **pass the automated tests** (GitHub Actions, CLA signing, etc.),
  (2) have all the **review comments addressed**,
  (3) get **approved reviews by at least two maintainers**, (the second maintainer can merge immediately after approving) and

>   (4) have been open for at least **12 hours** unless the changes are trivial (contains only typo fixes or shell builtin/keyword/quoting syntax fixes)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  (4) have been open for at least **12 hours** unless the changes are trivial ( E.G. contains only typo fixes or syntax error fixes)
```

There is just no need to so specific, I think it can be left the maintainers digression.

Author: I've written that it's up to maintainers to decide what is trivial or not. It means that everything depends on reviewers who review some PR.

>   These rules mean that trivial PRs can be merged before 12 hours left.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  These rules mean that trivial PRs can be merged before the default 24 hours.
```

Currently not grammatically correct.

- If a PR fails to get a review from a second maintainer after a week,
  the first maintainer should ping others for review. If it still lingers
  for **over a week without a second maintainer’s approval**,

>   the first maintainer can go ahead and merge it while possibly (if he/she/they) wants dismissing all reviewers who

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the first maintainer can go ahead and merge it.
```

Reviewer: I don't see the point in removing the requested users, they will still have the notification they were pinged (to my knowledge) and its just extra admin work for the person who merges.

>   didn't reviewed the PR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- If a PR **stops getting feedback from the submitter** and is marked as stale
  by [probot-stale](../.github/workflows/stale.yml),
  any maintainer can choose to take over the PR
  and make the necessary changes to get the content ready for merging.

- During the review process, make sure that contributors, especially new ones,

>   are not **overwhelmed with too many change requests** (you being a maintainer can

Reviewer: Not currently happy with this wording, maybe someone else can help fix it because it isn't very clear IMO

Author: Can you tell me what exactly u don't like in the current wording?

Reviewer 3: I think the current wording is fine. Not sure what to change in it.

  write less but more detailed comments in reviews to describe what the problem actually is
  and how it should be fixed).
  Be mindful of signs of fatigue (less enthusiastic responses, slower reactions),
  and relax review standards if necessary — minor issues can always be fixed later.

>   It doesn't mean that maintainers reviewing PRs from new contributors should violate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  It doesn't mean that maintainers reviewing PRs from new contributors should allow violation to the 
```

  style guide for simplifying feedback. It means that feedback should be better written

>   with more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  with more detail.
```

- **Don't request changes** just to block merging until there are issues that should be fixed because our specification or style guide mandates it.

>   Grammar errors and typos also can be a reason to request changes. No other reasons are valid to do so.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Grammatical errors and typos also can be a reason to request changes. No other reasons are valid to do so.
```

- When merging PRs, use the **merge strategy that produces a clean Git history**:
  If there's a single commit in the PR,
  or if the multiple commits are not semantically independent changes,
  use the `Squash and merge` method.
  Don't forget to clean up the body of the squashed commit message, especially the `Co-authored by:` part.
  (You can always use the body if you want to include useful information.)
  

>   Note: For all PRs from external contributors (outside of the tldr-pages organization) the `Co-authored by` part must be included in the merge commit message.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Note: For all PRs from external contributors (outside of the tldr-pages organization), the `Co-authored by` part must be included in the merge commit message.  
```

  are not **overwhelmed with too many change requests**.
  Be mindful of signs of fatigue (less enthusiastic responses, slower reactions),
  and relax review standards if necessary — minor issues can always be fixed later.
  It doesn't mean that maintainers reviewing PRs from new contributors should violate
  style guide for simplifying feedback. It means that feedback should be better written
  with more details.

- When merging PRs, use the **merge strategy that produces a clean Git history**:
  If there's a single commit in the PR,
  or if the multiple commits are not semantically independent changes,
  use the `Squash and merge` method.

>   Don't forget to clean up the body of the squashed commit message, specially the `Co-authored by:` part.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Don't forget to clean up the body of the squashed commit message, especially the `Co-authored by:` part.
```

>   (Don't forget to clean up the body of the squashed commit message: remove all
>   lines starting with `Co-authored by:`.)

Reviewer 4: All should be removed, 
```suggestion
  Don't forget to clean up the body of the squashed commit message, specially the `Co-authored by:` trailer, giving all the credit to the pull request's author is a good incentive to keep contributing.
  (You can always use the body if you want to include useful information.)
```

>   Don't forget to clean up the body of the squashed commit message, specially the `Co-authored by:` trailer, giving all the credit to the pull request's author is a good incentive to keep contributing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Don't forget to clean up the body of the squashed commit message, specially the `Co-authored by:` part.
```

>   (You can always use the body if you want to include useful information.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  use the `Squash and merge` method.
  Don't forget to clean up the body of the squashed commit message, especially the `Co-authored by:` part.
  (You can always use the body if you want to include useful information.)
  

>  Note: For some PRs with reviews and proofreading from contributors or native speakers outside of the tldr-pages organization the `Co-authored by` part must be included in the merge commit message.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 Note: For some PRs with reviews and proofreading from contributors or native speakers outside of the tldr-pages organization the `Co-authored by` part must be included in the merge commit message.  
```
Adding 2 spaces to make [`Line 94`](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr/blob/fee7444ea1349418f91b9fe7cb388b63418fa60c/contributing-guides/maintainers-guide.md) go to next line

Author: done ;)

  then prefer squash, else do a rebase.

- Although having push access allows committing directly to the repository,
  please **create pull requests for all of your changes**,

>   except the simplest ones (e.g. typo fixes).

Reviewer: I don't see why not, its just more admin work and pointless reviews.

See one of my typo fix commits [here](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr/commit/e4719999325f611503c2ad1dc7bea3e8ac25f557)

Does this really need reviewing? IMO, no because no one is going to reject it and no other changes need to be made.

Author: There is always a human factor. So we can make mistake even in fixing typos. It's sounds funny but I am serious. 😁 If we want allow commiting to the main branch without PRs we have to define what kind of typos we can fix in this way. But maybe there are another solutions to this problem. 🤔 I am going to update this file tomorrow.

Reviewer 2: I still recommend opening a PR for trivial changes, even if you merge it yourself right after, though I suppose there are exceptions to every rule.

Author: Pushes with trivial changes (formal definition is put above) are allowed now.

>   please **create pull requests for all of your changes**.

Reviewer 4: I like this change.
